README.md, before:

Ocean Example for Stochastic Simulators: overview with opportunities
================

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

## List of R scripts

  - **SimulatorAndFunctions.R** source this file for loading settings
    for running the simulator in 2D and 4D (i.e. with or without the
    calibration parameters).
  - **testdesign.R** generates test data to check the accuracy of the
    emulator and of calibration.
  - **LHDcalibration.R** function for generating design of numerical
    experiments for simulator with input variables restricted to be in
    the set of field input variables.
  - **DOEcalibration** for generating the “field data” used in
    calibration and the design of numerical experiments.
  - **FunctionCalibration.R** specific functions used in the calibration
    of the ocean simulator.

## List of data

  - **gridu.txt**, **gridv.txt** and **oxygengrid.txt** are necessary
    settings to run the simulator (they are loaded when sourcing
    **SimulatorAndFunctions.R**).
  - **testdata2D.csv** 500 averaged outputs of the ocean simulator over
    enough replications to guarantee a small standard error (long and
    lat give the location, m is the averaged mean, sd is the standard
    error of the mean, num is the number of replications used to compute
    the mean). This dataset is generated with diffusion coefficient set
    to 700 and 200 and is used to test the accuracy of the emulator with
    known or unknown calibration parameters.
  - **EmulationRep.csv** consists in results in mean square errors
    (MSE), score for mean prediction, score for a run prediction issued
    by the three emulators (homGP, hetGP, seqhetGP). The whole process
    from DOE generation to emulator fitting is repeated over 100
    replications.
  - **FieldData.csv** are simulated “field data” with calibration
    parameters set to 700 and 200.
  - **staticDOEcalibration.csv** is the static design of numerical
    experiments used for homGP and hetGP for calibration purpose (4
    inputs are considered longitude, latitude and the two calibrations
    paremeters). This design is obtained as 500 unique locations with 10
    replications each.
  - **seqDOEcalibration.csv** is the seq design of numerical experiments
    used for seqhetGP for calibration purpose. It has the same unique
    location as the static design with only 4 replications first, the
    remaining runs (up to a total of 5000 runs to the simulators) are
    chosen sequentially.
  - **EmulatorCalib4D.Rdata** contains the fit fo the emulators for
    calibration.

## List of results visualization

  - **OceanExampleEmulation2D.Rmd** runs the emulators building and
    display plot of predicted mean and variance. It also display
    prediction performance including boxplots for the 100 replications.
    [See the knitted
    version.](https://github.com/Demiperimetre/Ocean/blob/master/OceanExampleEmulation2D.md)
  - **OceanCalibration.Rmd** runs the KOH calibration. Posterior
    distribution of the parameters are plotted and the prediction
    performance are compared before and after calibration, and also with
    L2 calibration, bad and good guesses of the calibration parameters.
    [See the knitted
    version.](https://github.com/Demiperimetre/Ocean/blob/master/OceanCalibration.md)

for any questions related to these scripts, please contact
**<pierre.barbillon@agroparistech.fr>**

Commit message:

adding file for generating multiple SD plots and update of the README file

README.md, after:

Ocean Example for Stochastic Simulators: overview with opportunities
================

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

## List of R scripts

  - **SimulatorAndFunctions.R** source this file for loading settings
    for running the simulator in 2D and 4D (i.e. with or without the
    calibration parameters).
  - **testdesign.R** generates test data to check the accuracy of the
    emulator and of calibration.
  - **LHDcalibration.R** function for generating design of numerical
    experiments for simulator with input variables restricted to be in
    the set of field input variables.
  - **DOEcalibration.R** for generating the “field data” used in
    calibration and the design of numerical experiments.
  - **FunctionCalibration.R** specific functions used in the calibration
    of the ocean simulator.
  - **OceanEmulationSDplots.R** for generating several predictive SD
    plots from different DOE.

## List of data

  - **gridu.txt**, **gridv.txt** and **oxygengrid.txt** are necessary
    settings to run the simulator (they are loaded when sourcing
    **SimulatorAndFunctions.R**).
  - **testdata2D.csv** 500 averaged outputs of the ocean simulator over
    enough replications to guarantee a small standard error (long and
    lat give the location, m is the averaged mean, sd is the standard
    error of the mean, num is the number of replications used to compute
    the mean). This dataset is generated with diffusion coefficient set
    to 700 and 200 and is used to test the accuracy of the emulator with
    known or unknown calibration parameters.
  - **EmulationRep.csv** consists in results in mean square errors
    (MSE), score for mean prediction, score for a run prediction issued
    by the three emulators (homGP, hetGP, seqhetGP). The whole process
    from DOE generation to emulator fitting is repeated over 100
    replications.
  - **FieldData.csv** are simulated “field data” with calibration
    parameters set to 700 and 200.
  - **staticDOEcalibration.csv** is the static design of numerical
    experiments used for homGP and hetGP for calibration purpose (4
    inputs are considered longitude, latitude and the two calibrations
    paremeters). This design is obtained as 500 unique locations with 10
    replications each.
  - **seqDOEcalibration.csv** is the seq design of numerical experiments
    used for seqhetGP for calibration purpose. It has the same unique
    location as the static design with only 4 replications first, the
    remaining runs (up to a total of 5000 runs to the simulators) are
    chosen sequentially.
  - **EmulatorCalib4D.Rdata** contains the fit fo the emulators for
    calibration.
  - **discrepancy.csv** simulated discrepancy from a Gaussian Process.
    It is used to create synthetic data for calibration.
  - **noisyfielddata.csv** synthetic field data for calibration (it
    corresponds to outputs of the ocean simulator + discrepancy + white
    noise).

## List of results visualization

  - **OceanExampleEmulation2D.Rmd** runs the emulators building and
    display plot of predicted mean and variance. It also display
    prediction performance including boxplots for the 100 replications.
    [See the knitted
    version.](https://github.com/Demiperimetre/Ocean/blob/master/OceanExampleEmulation2D.md)
  - **OceanCalibration.Rmd** runs the KOH calibration. Posterior
    distribution of the parameters are plotted and the prediction
    performance are compared before and after calibration, and also with
    L2 calibration, bad and good guesses of the calibration parameters.
    [See the knitted
    version.](https://github.com/Demiperimetre/Ocean/blob/master/OceanCalibration.md)

for any questions related to these scripts, please contact
**<pierre.barbillon@agroparistech.fr>**
